---
title: 'Adaptive fuzzy Lyapunov-based model predictive control for parallel platform driving simulator'
collection: publications
category: articles
permalink: /publications/2022-09-aflmpc
authors: 'Cuong Nguyen Manh, Nhu Toan Nguyen, Nam Bui Duy & Tung Lam Nguyen'
date: 2022-09-01
venue: 'Transactions of the Institute of Measurement and Control'
doi: 10.1177/01423312221122470
arxivurl: 'https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Duy-Nam-Bui-2/publication/365801613_Adaptive_Fuzzy_Lyapunov-based_Model_Predictive_Control_for_Parallel_Platform_Driving_Simulators/links/6384df087b0e356feb92d153/Adaptive-Fuzzy-Lyapunov-based-Model-Predictive-Control-for-Parallel-Platform-Driving-Simulators.pdf'
---

The paper proposes an adaptive Lyapunov-based nonlinear model predictive control (MPC) to cope with the problems in nonlinear systems subjecting to system constraints and unknown disturbances of the parallel car driving simulator. Commonly, standard nonlinear controllers could guarantee the overall system stability for the parallel structure. However, the constraints tend to impact the control performance and stability adversely. Therefore, MPC plays a vital role in the proposed technique to explicitly consider all the practical constraints and simultaneously enhance the system’s robustness. Nevertheless, the accuracy of the modeling process has a significant effect on the MPC performance, and thus, the convergence cannot be guaranteed in the presence of the model uncertainties. To overcome this problem, by the merit of the fuzzy adaptive law, the control system takes the disturbances and unmodelled parameters into account. Moreover, the feasibility and stability of the approach, which is the fundamental problem of MPC, are ensured according to the Lyapunov-based nonlinear controller, backstepping aggregated with sliding mode control (SMC), and hence inherit advantages of these controls. Simulation results show the efficiency and superior constituted controllers of the proposed method.