---
title: 'Lyapunov-based nonlinear model predictive control for attitude trajectory tracking of unmanned aerial vehicles'
collection: publications
category: articles
permalink: /publications/2023-04-lnmpc
authors: 'Duy Nam Bui, Thi Thanh Van Nguyen & Manh Duong Phung'
date: 2023-04-01
venue: 'International Journal of Aeronautical and Space Sciences'
doi: 10.1007/s42405-022-00545-5
arxivurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.15930'
---

The paper proposes an adaptive Lyapunov-based nonlinear model predictive control (MPC) to cope with the problems in nonlinear systems This paper presents a new Lyapunov-based nonlinear model predictive controller (LNMPC) for the attitude control problem of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), which is essential for their functioning operation. The controller is designed based on a quadratic cost function integrating UAV dynamics and system constraints. An additional contraction constraint is then introduced to ensure closed-loop system stability. That constraint is fulfilled via a Lyapunov function derived from a sliding mode controller (SMC). The feasibility and stability of the LNMPC are finally proved. Simulation and comparison results show that the proposed controller guarantees the system stability and outperforms other state-of-the-art nonlinear controllers, such as the backstepping controller and SMC. In addition, the proposed controller can be integrated into an existing UAV model in the Gazebo simulator to perform software-in-the-loop tests. The results show that the LNMPC is better than the built-in proportional–integral–derivative controller of the UAV, which confirms the validity and applicability of our proposed approach.